# Unifying Mixture of Experts and Multi-Head Latent Attention for Efficient Language Models

> Sushant Mehta, Raj Dandekar, Rajat Dandekar, Sreedath Panat

![](../../blank.jpg)

## Abstract

We present MoE-MLA-RoPE, a novel architecture combination that combines
Mixture of Experts (MoE) with Multi-head Latent Attention (MLA) and Rotary
Position Embeddings (RoPE) for efficient language modeling. Our approach
addresses the fundamental trade-off between model capacity and computational
efficiency through three key innovations: (1) fine-grained expert routing with
64 micro-experts and top-$k$ selection, enabling flexible specialization
through 3.6 * 10^7 possible expert combinations; (2) shared expert isolation
that dedicates 2 always active experts for common patterns while routing to 6
of 62 specialized experts; and (3) gradient-conflict-free load balancing that
maintains expert utilization without interfering with primary loss
optimization.
  Extensive experiments on models ranging from 17M to 202M parameters
demonstrate that MoE-MLA-RoPE with compression ratio r=d/2 achieves 68% KV
cache memory reduction and 3.2x inference speedup while maintaining competitive
perplexity (0.8% degradation). Compared to the parameters with 53.9M
parameters, MoE-MLA-RoPE improves the validation loss by 6.9% over the vanilla
transformers while using 42% fewer active parameters per forward pass.
FLOP-matched experiments reveal even larger gains: 11.1% improvement with 3.2x
inference acceleration. Automated evaluation using GPT-4 as a judge confirms
quality improvements in generation, with higher scores on coherence (8.1/10),
creativity (7.9/10) and grammatical correctness (8.2/10). Our results establish
that architectural novelty, not parameter scaling, defines the efficiency
frontier for resource-constrained language model deployment.
